Jerry Michalski: Good.
Jerry Michalski: Welcome to the Open Global Mind weekly call on Thursday, October 9th, 2025.
Jerry Michalski: Last week, in lieu of a check-in, which is what we normally do on the first month… first Thursdays of every month, we started talking about OGM and our process, and our protocols and how we… how we go about doing stuff. A conversation which went really nicely, and took us into some really interesting questions that are
Jerry Michalski: Beyond the immediate needs of how do we do what we do, but rather
Jerry Michalski: how do online communities actually communicate, and where is this whole damn thing going? And how does AI factor into the mix in a productive way?
Jerry Michalski: So I'd like to continue that quest today. I'd like to see where we go. A couple people, Thorbjorn Mann and John Warner, sent very thoughtful replies to my invite to this topic, to the OGM list.
Jerry Michalski: which I was just kind of reviewing.
Jerry Michalski: And,
Jerry Michalski: And I'm wondering if there's any… first, if anybody has any afterthoughts from last week, or just on the topic in general. I just want to open the floor and see what's… what's on… what's on our minds about this.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, and here's John.
Jerry Michalski: Stacy.
Stacey Druss: Well, I just had one afterthought, and Jesse actually covered it really well, but.
John Warinner: Better do runs with this.
Stacey Druss: You bet.
Stacey Druss: Is there a… is there an echo?
Jerry Michalski: That was John, and I just… he's in his car on his phone, so I just muted his line.
Stacey Druss: Oh, as long as it's not…
Jerry Michalski: No, no worries, John. It's not anybody invading the, the call.
Stacey Druss: The idea of Facebook had come up, you know, as a negative, and I just wanted to point out that
Stacey Druss: My understanding is that when Facebook was developed, it was developed for them.
Stacey Druss: And the idea of developing a platform for yourself.
Stacey Druss: I think is an important piece to that.
Stacey Druss: that aligns with what Jesse was explaining about the way women create.
Stacey Druss: So I just wanted to make that parallel. Like, I know there's so many negatives to Facebook, but I think the negatives came in when the idea of monetizing something came in. So I just wanted to bring it back to creating for community.
Jerry Michalski: That is a lovely thing to bring back into the conversation, I really appreciate that. And I want… and I… my memory of the Facebook birth story is that Zuckerberg created an app to basically find, excuse the language, hot babes on the Harvard campus.
Jerry Michalski: That was the original purpose of Face Smash, I think is what it was called originally.
Jerry Michalski: Because when you get to campuses like that, you often, at least you used to, you would get a Facebook, we also called it the Pig Book, because I went to Penn for a while, and it has photos and names of all the people in your class.
Jerry Michalski: And, you know, you use it to figure out who the heck is that that I'm, you know, seeing down the hall or whatever. Anyway, so yeah, so Stacy, the birth story of Facebook is the opposite.
Jerry Michalski: of the energy that you and Jesse were sort of bringing into the room, which I would love to explore much more.
Stacey Druss: Well, but the point I want to make is, yes, there is that negative there, but there's always two pieces to everything, so while I want to throw out the negative, I don't want to lose the positive piece to it.
Jerry Michalski: which, if I'm gonna reinterpret, correct me if I'm wrong, which is, they built something that was useful for them, that it was, that it was useful for a group of people trying to get something done, which I totally agree with. The best software… the best software pre-inshidification
Jerry Michalski: Is, software that helps people get something done they really, really want to do.
Jerry Michalski: And there's… and there's an open question right now about, and I don't think this… I don't think this will apply to the big software communication platforms, but there's an open question right now about, will we be looking at apps in the App Store anymore?
Jerry Michalski: Or will we just talk to an, you know, AI, to our AI agent, which then generates ad hoc software that we need to get something done?
Jerry Michalski: this kind of obviates persistent software like a community, because if you can't whip up new software every time you need to talk to your buddies, because you need to have been talking to them over time. There's no… I think that the… we'll just whip it up in a moment's notice model doesn't work at all for anything with some history or something like that. But there is this open question that AI is going to get rid of the need to have specialty, small-purpose software
Jerry Michalski: programs, because it'll just go, oh, I can do that.
Jerry Michalski: And, and here's a, here's a new app.
Jerry Michalski: Kill.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Oh, I can do that, but without the quality control.
Jerry Michalski: that you might find with a professional software shop. I mean, I've been trying to… Oh, sure.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I've been playing a lot with AI, and it takes a lot of iterations.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: To get it to where I wanted to get to. Right.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But back to the platforms for them, platforms for us, etc.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: What I'm wondering is, is insidification tightly correlated with monetization?
Jerry Michalski: I… so.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And the related question is, how do you build something that has the appropriate reach for what's trying to be done, and can be sustained economically in the course of doing that, without falling into the acidification machine?
Jerry Michalski: Yes, and I think that's, one of the… one of the big questions here is, is it possible to have viable, sustainable, ongoing concern software that doesn't need to go down the intridification rat hole?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And related to that, Does the if-so factor depend on volunteer labor?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: to sustain.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which means that the volunteers have to have sources of income from somewhere else, so they're, you know, they're maybe tied into the intrification machine for most of their lives, and do volunteer good work, which is lovely, and it's how we've gotten a lot of the open source, you know, brilliance of the last 50 years, but it's not a sustainable strategy.
Jerry Michalski: Yes.
Jerry Michalski: And, oh, lost my thought.
Jerry Michalski: Other thoughts? I'm sort of checking in for those of you who just joined the call, Kevin Jose.
Jerry Michalski: I'm asking, are there any afterthoughts from last week's call, or about this topic in general? So we're just, kind of setting the stage for our conversation.
Jose Leal: I wasn't here last week, so I'm not sure that I have any… Any thoughts yet?
Jerry Michalski: No worries, thanks.
Kevin Jones: I think John asked…
Kevin Jones: a really interesting set of questions in the email that I'd like to… his questions would be better than the one I come up with.
Jerry Michalski: I agree. John, thank you. You and Thorbjorn sent really thoughtful notes to the retreat list.
Jerry Michalski: And I'm going to actually copy-paste your note into the chat, which I think will blow the chat
Jerry Michalski: Let's see if it blows the chat text limit.
Jerry Michalski: Yes, I have to cut it in half, hold on.
Jerry Michalski: There we go. That, and that, and of course, it didn't do any of the carriage returns. Sorry about that. But John, if you're,
Jerry Michalski: Near your… near your device. Would you like to, talk about what you posted.
Jerry Michalski: And he… oh, good.
John Warinner: Yeah, sorry. I,
John Warinner: I don't know quite what to say that wouldn't just be repeating what I wrote, but I understand not everybody is… that's on the call has seen the…
Jerry Michalski: I just pasted into the chat, although it doesn't look as nice as in your email, but it is available to everybody on this call right now.
John Warinner: I mean, I mean, the main… the main theme of what I was getting at is, for me, it was a bit of an epiphany, and I'm sure that others, you know, this occurred to others, you know, long ago, but…
John Warinner: in more than one setting, not just OGM, I'm having this experience where I personally am doing a lot with ChatGPT, you know, just as my own internal
John Warinner: you know…
John Warinner: feedback device, cogitation device, whatever. But I'm seeing more and more, like, in the OGM list, and… and elsewhere, where people are having, you know, like, these
John Warinner: revealing, you know, experiences by one-on-one explorations with AI,
John Warinner: And understandably, like, we're wanting to share that with others, but we're… so many of us are doing it, like, we don't really have time, you know, to fully digest
John Warinner: you know, like, I'm having my own conversations, I don't know that I have… whether it's a matter of interest, time, whatever, bandwidth, you know, you just kind of, like, it's all we can do to get, you know, get through our own busy days and busy schedules, so it's like, when someone shares, hey, here's the, you know.
John Warinner: 2,000, 4,000 word, you know, exchange that I had, which… which was probably even an excerpt, right? Because it's like the… the words pile up pretty quick, you know, with an exchange back and forth, and a…
John Warinner: you know, dialogue through a one-hour hike or something, like what I'm doing occasionally with ChatGPT, and…
John Warinner: Anyway, so the main point was, how do we share it? And…
John Warinner: The other day was just kind of the first time that this light bulb went on in my head, that it was, like.
John Warinner: Well, I guess you gotta back up and ask, like, why are we all having one-on-ones, with ChatGPT? Like, why aren't we having conversations like this, where…
John Warinner: not just ChatGPT, but you guys get what I mean. Like, where the LLM is just a participant in the conversation.
John Warinner: So that kind of prompted me to ask ChatGPT, like, well, how far off is that? Because I hadn't even really thought about it, you know?
John Warinner: And the response I got was, oh yeah, you know, like, that's in the pipeline, and it's, you know, maybe a couple years away, because there's a lot to it.
John Warinner: But it just really got me thinking about, that's gonna be a different…
John Warinner: chapter of this deal than what… than what we're currently in. And maybe, in a way, it tempers some of the, you know, the internal frustrations, where we're… we're bombarding each other with these…
John Warinner: you know, loquacious, you know, exchanges, because we really want to share it, right? Like, because we really feel like we are having some…
John Warinner: You know, like, intellectual insights and breakthroughs, and so there's a strong desire to share it, but…
John Warinner: the bandwidth, personal, individual bandwidth, just isn't there for each of us to share all this stuff. So, anyway.
Jerry Michalski: John, thank you for that. That helps and amplifies what you said online. And I'm going to make an analogy that may or may not work for you, but… because I use the brain and do mind mapping, but I also talk to people, who do Kumu, system maps and all this and all that, and my experience of other people's maps
Jerry Michalski: And this may ring a bell for people.
Jerry Michalski: my experience of other people's maps is that maps that they think are really profound and explain a lot are often impenetrable to me, or need to be unpacked really slowly, which takes time. The times that it works best, like with Gene Bellinger, are when Gene starts with a little piece of the story, and then he adds on a loop, and then he adds on a piece over here, and then he basically builds it out.
Jerry Michalski: which takes the effort on both of our sides. He has to… he has to go back. Once he's elaborated a large map, he has to go back and figure out what is… how do I then unpack this for people?
Jerry Michalski: And I think what's happening in LLMs is that these LLMs are very capable of taking us down really fruitful and interesting paths. A couple years ago, early in this Gen AI era.
Jerry Michalski: I went to pi.ai, it said, what's on your mind? I answered that, and I proceeded in 90 minutes to have the best interview I've ever had with anybody.
John Warinner: And I think I've mentioned this in an OGM call before, but what it kept doing was, it would say, oh, it sounds like you said this, and it would raise the conversation, do you mean this?
Jerry Michalski: And I'd be like, yeah, yeah, yeah, that. And then it would do it again. It was not just doing Eliza back to me, it wasn't a stochastic parrot, it was somehow deeply understanding what I was up to, and I was like, oh my god, oh my god! And I, you know, I haven't actually gone back to that thread. I think it sort of shook me a little bit, because I'm trying to figure out how to incorporate
Jerry Michalski: this new set of AIs into my life more, which is a whole different conversation. But I say all that because
Jerry Michalski: many of us are having these exciting conversations, and then we share them in to our media, which tends to be, at this point, the OGM list, and then it's a lot of words, it's a couple thousand words, and it's in an form that's
Jerry Michalski: Relatively easy to digest, because bullets and bold help, and the separations help. These devices are smart enough to format nicely, but they're sort of not as exciting as they are to the person who had the conversation.
Jerry Michalski: But, but worse.
Jerry Michalski: they impose a long read on whoever is supposed to be, sort of, you know, doing that. And maybe… I'm going to propose a little solution along the way here. Maybe one way to do that is a lot of these LLMs give you a URL for the conversation, and instead of pasting the conversation into the email and sharing the whole thing, just to paste the link to the conversation, and anybody who's up for the long read can go
Jerry Michalski: do that, and other people can then skip. But I don't know. I think part of our conversation here is.
Jerry Michalski: What are the protocols that will make us less uncomfortable or unhappy with how we're going about
Jerry Michalski: having these conversations, but I like the other part of the conversation, John, which you also opened up, which is, at some point, these agents will be part of our conversation. We will want them to be engaged with this group as Gil's Fathom note-taker is right now, which I sort of resent.
Jerry Michalski: Because…
Jerry Michalski: Because when Gil shows up, he shows up with, like, 3 different note-takers now. I'm like, no, no, don't want them. But if one of these were as good an interviewer or processor of group dialogue as my experience a couple years ago with Pi.ai.
Jerry Michalski: I'm in. That could be really fruitful for where we're heading. And I'll go to John first, and then I'll go back to the queue.
John Warinner: Yeah, so just a quick response to that, Jerry. It's funny that you mentioned Gene Bellinger, because he was the one that told me, this is several years ago, when I was getting into system thinking, systems mapping, Kumu, all that stuff, and he said, John, just don't make the mistake, he said.
John Warinner: the value of this is the… is the gerund, right? Like, it's the mapping, it's not the map.
John Warinner: And, like, just exact… he forewarned me of what you said, and I had had that experience myself. You do all this work, you bring people the map.
John Warinner: They can't make any sense of your map.
John Warinner: But it's… it's… but if you can lead a group through a mapping exercise, they get value from the mapping, not the map. And… and… and I would think that the same… totally what you said, the same…
John Warinner: operative is at work when you're… when you're mapping, or thinking, or conversing with an LLM? I think the greatest value is in the conversation, not in the product of the conversation. I'll pass on to others.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Gil, is your hand up from before, or…
Jerry Michalski: Are you back in the queue?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: No, it's from before, sorry.
Jerry Michalski: Okay, good. Alex?
Jerry Michalski: You are muted, however.
Jerry Michalski: We will only hear your wisdom if you unmute.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you.
Alex Kladitis: Sorry about that. Thanks, John, and
Alex Kladitis: I've got something to say about that, but let me go back first to what you said about what we discussed last week, and
Alex Kladitis: what we started off this week, and we've gone into one of the topics. And it's as follows.
Alex Kladitis: Last week, I had the impression that we… it's like having multiple balloons up in the air at the same time.
Alex Kladitis: And you could've kept… You know, batting away whatever comes down that balloons with the topics.
Alex Kladitis: And I got the feeling that
Alex Kladitis: We didn't really know what we wanted
Alex Kladitis: to discuss, or we knew what we wanted to discuss, but there's so many aspects to it that we couldn't cohere to anything, come together to anything. So, that's what I was going to say before John spoke, and now I'll go John spoke. So, one of the things is, what are we here for? I'm here, maybe we should all say what we're here for.
Alex Kladitis: I'm here because I hear New perspectives, or existing perspectives from different people, with a different viewpoint.
Alex Kladitis: And it makes me think, okay? So that's why I'm here. But it strikes me that other people are here for other reasons. So if we're going to have a tool.
Alex Kladitis: what is the tool that will address? And I'll just go back to… tied up to John's,
Alex Kladitis: what John said, and what you said, Gerry.
Alex Kladitis: If we take the conversation that someone pastes
Alex Kladitis: A lot of text onto, email.
Alex Kladitis: From the start, if I go into email to look at OGM,
Alex Kladitis: or if I go into email, I'm looking for snappy, short things to act on.
Alex Kladitis: If someone says, read this 20-minute thing, That's my view, okay?
Alex Kladitis: But if someone says, read this 20-minute thing, I've got to say, right.
Alex Kladitis: Okay, I've got all these things to do for my day, let me park it for later, let me do… there's all sorts of… it's a different mechanic.
Alex Kladitis: So, so, the other thing about it, if the LLM is participating, I doubt if we'd let it go on for 20 minutes.
Alex Kladitis: on a topic, because it would cut down what it says. One of the value of what we're doing is we're limited to 2-3 minutes. It's a self-limitation, I know, but, it could be endorsed.
Alex Kladitis: But when we talk about LLMs, we're…
Alex Kladitis: It's a different type of thinking and talking.
Alex Kladitis: So…
Alex Kladitis: come back to this. What is… what do people want out of this group, or this conversation? Not necessarily the group, the conversation?
Alex Kladitis: And I think that's important. I'll tell you what I want, but, you know.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Alex. That's really useful, and you're…
Jerry Michalski: I did this when you were talking about you want emails to be short and crisp, because I run into way too many long reads that are in emails, not because that's a great place for them, but because there's somebody who just posted something super interesting, and I know I need to read it.
Jerry Michalski: I'm remembering that my…
Alex Kladitis: But…
Jerry Michalski: Sorry, but it makes you feel…
Alex Kladitis: Different, because suddenly it's a different
Alex Kladitis: Sorry, the email is not the problem.
Alex Kladitis: It's what you have allocated yourself time for.
Alex Kladitis: So when I do OGMs, I have to say, I'm not doing email anymore, I am…
Alex Kladitis: in deep study mode, or… and I'm allocating an hour of my time.
Jerry Michalski: Which is our self-control, which is our ability to manage our time and our attention and all that kind of stuff as well.
Jerry Michalski: This is a side dish, but it's related. One of my pet peeves for private mailing lists over time and private forums has been that I've seen people post brilliant things that are not in public.
Jerry Michalski: So I can't point to them and, you know, retweet them, repost them, do whatever. I feel sad that retweet is now, like, a dead verb.
Jerry Michalski: But…
Jerry Michalski: A policy I tried to talk about years ago was post outside in, meaning if you have an interesting idea, go write a post about it on whatever your favorite, you know, if it's LiveJournal or Blogger, whatever, go write a post about it, then give us the link here.
Jerry Michalski: And then we can sort of have the conversation in the more public view, in a different forum, perhaps. That would, you know, I thought that was interesting, because I think there's a lot of really good stuff just trapped in private, you know, private online spaces that are now in the bit bucket. Nobody goes back and sees them, communities move, whatever else happens.
Jerry Michalski: I'm also reminded that my first experience online was on the well.
Jerry Michalski: My first, my first sort of good set of…
Jerry Michalski: And the well, was out of Sausalito. It was a really interesting thing that ran into a bulletin board system called PicoSpan.
Jerry Michalski: And one of the problems with forums like The Well, and we had a… Pete set up a forum for us here on Discourse, one of my problems with those formats is I can't read through a long list of posts and remember that there was a really good one here and a really good one here, with a whole stretch of crap in between, and then…
Jerry Michalski: I knew that there was really good stuff floating by, but I could never keep myself up-to-date in the conversation on those kinds of media, and that just may be a permanent problem. But I think that it's one of the many facets of what we're trying to solve for here, Alex, and you're right to point out that we've got 12 different questions, Dwayne?
Alex Kladitis: I think the right tool isn't there, and, you know, we should get the right
Alex Kladitis: But what we've got now isn't.
Alex Kladitis: However, I would like to ask you, Jerry, why are you in this group? I know you're organizing and owning it, but…
Alex Kladitis: What's in it for you?
Jerry Michalski: First of all,
Jerry Michalski: I learn a lot of stuff I would never figure out, because everybody shows up here and shares in stuff they're finding, stuff they're thinking, and I leave many, not all, but many of our conversations going, oh, I hadn't put that plus that together in my head, and it's really interesting and useful. And I'm busy curating that into my brain, so for me.
Jerry Michalski: I get a long-term benefit because the curation over time gets better. Things… knowledge accumulates or accrues, and that really works well for me. Also, I love who shows up, and I just love the social interactions, I love getting to know more about you, I love…
Jerry Michalski: I love that we show up and we're not like, oh, what do you do? Right? We're like, oh, we know what we do, we've been sitting here talking for, like, 4 or 5 years.
Jerry Michalski: We're busy onto a whole set of things, and we've got history and all of that, so I love that. And I love also, maybe a third thing real quick, and then I'll go to Sean.
Jerry Michalski: I love that bringing people together in places like this allows people to get to know each other, and then they go off and have conversations and do projects and do things, and that is a huge payoff for me. I'm like, if three people met someplace that I helped convene, and they did something they loved, I'm… that's…
Jerry Michalski: That's gold for me.
Jerry Michalski: So, that's top of mind, that's kind of why I'm here. There's probably a couple other reasons that I'm here that have been frustrated. Like, I would really like to build a global mind. I really… the big fungus that I've talked about a little bit on the calls here is my funny sort of analogy for what that could look like. We really haven't done that. We haven't done much of that at all.
Jerry Michalski: And I'm wondering where those things might go as well as part of this process. And I'll also add.
Jerry Michalski: It's very possible that LLMs are really nice companions for long, threaded discussions, because they might be excellent summarizers or highlighters of what actually happened in these super too-long-to-read threads. The TLDR agent
Jerry Michalski: might be a real boon here as we walk into deeper conversations, and I think deeper conversations are very important to have.
Jerry Michalski: Whew! Sean, thank you for your patience.
Shawn Murphy: I'm, typing feverishly, because what I'm deploying is the very latest, latest version of, Thinkertoys, and on my own development machine.
Shawn Murphy: It's working, and I'm having a hard time getting it deployed. If I could only deploy it, then I would be inviting you
Shawn Murphy: Individually by email to come and start Knowledge?
Shawn Murphy: Collaborating at the knowledge level in real time.
Shawn Murphy: And so, I, I…
Shawn Murphy: I… sorry, I keep saying this, but I think I'm building the tool that we're talking about. And I think this morning, I'm deploying it, if only the blessed thing… I've got… I think I've got one little configuration line that's problematic. But, what it is, is,
Shawn Murphy: I was working it with a different crew last Saturday, and what we were doing was we were working a cycle where we were doing, editing a prompt together for an LLM,
Shawn Murphy: then we were running the prompt through the LLM, and then it was generating… that prompt was asking for output in Turtle, which is a knowledge format, a graph knowledge representation technology.
Shawn Murphy: And we were pumping that into… into Thinkertoys, and then immediately graphing
Shawn Murphy: the, the output of that. And the graphing was just one of multiple visualization technologies, some tabular, some graphical, some wiggly graph things, and we were going through the cycle of basically exploring a topic
Shawn Murphy: Ian…
Shawn Murphy: almost real time, because it wasn't all fully wired together last weekend, but by Saturday it will be, in near real time, where it was a group of us collaborating with AI,
Shawn Murphy: and then the AI was populating one of many shared
Shawn Murphy: knowledge collaboration workspaces that Thinkertoys provides, so that
Shawn Murphy: In effect, we were collaborating together. It was producing output that we were able to
Shawn Murphy: Springboard off of and continue to work on together.
Shawn Murphy: Okay, so there's too much to say about what its scope is, but I…
Shawn Murphy: I think I'm making the tool
Shawn Murphy: that we're talking about, and I invite
Shawn Murphy: invite your participation, because I… again, there's more than fits in this margin.
Jerry Michalski: So, Sean, I would suggest that if you were to send an invite to the OGM list asking for people to show up for a pop-up call to try your tool, you would have a bunch of enthusiastic people jumping in.
Shawn Murphy: Okay, lovely, thank you so much.
Jerry Michalski: we can go from there and see what's up. So, love that.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Stacy, please.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, Jerry, you just kind of hit on it. I was going to highlight what John said. Recently there was a long AI chat about,
Stacey Druss: I think it was about the shutdown, and what I did is I ran it through the LLM to get the podcast.
Stacey Druss: And what it did is it created a very short podcast that was a great beginning point for a conversation.
Stacey Druss: And so that's what I do that takes that long text and gets me a great starting place for a conversation. So I just wanted to say that sort of what you're describing.
Stacey Druss: That's it. Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Before I turned on the recorder, I was commenting that I keep forgetting the name of an app that I got to use for an online focus group-y kind of thing. It wasn't really a focus group. It was about 60 or 70 people anonymized, so I was Orange Panda or something like that. You got a color on an animal.
Jerry Michalski: I'm all anonymized, so at the end of an hour and a half or two-hour session, I did not know anybody in the room, which was the major drawback of the whole thing for me, because the thing really worked well. And there was a topic for the whole discussion.
Jerry Michalski: We had been given questions ahead of time, and then what happened was we were broken up and we were sent into breakouts to talk about
Jerry Michalski: Each of the questions we had been given for very brief periods of time, and we were busy sort of typing in our thoughts and answers.
Jerry Michalski: there was AI in the system that was summarizing or picking out things from each of the groups and cross-fertilizing them, and then at the end of each of your sessions, the AI would summarize and say, I think this is what you said, yes, or I think this is what you've agreed on, yes, and it was quite good at that.
Jerry Michalski: So, the AI was being really, really helpful in ways that I hadn't experienced before in that kind of a setting. So I will… I will discover, rediscover what the name of the app is, but I'm… I'm looking forward to, you know, our…
Jerry Michalski: I, for one, look forward to our new robot overlords. No, no, no, I don't mean that.
Jerry Michalski: But I look forward to having AIs that are participating in this conversation as excellent listeners and summarizers, or something else, I don't know, but I think that that conversation is fun to have.
Jerry Michalski: And maybe just a wee bit frightening.
Stacey Druss: If I could just say, what I like… what I liked that the podcast did is it asked good questions.
Stacey Druss: That's what I really loved.
Jerry Michalski: Yep, yep.
Jerry Michalski: Super. Done?
Doug Breitbart: Yeah, I, you know, looping back to, the why.
Doug Breitbart: in all of this. And…
Doug Breitbart: You know, the… the… the central… purpose… for me, is… Understanding.
Doug Breitbart: And… not mine, but… Somebody else's understanding of mine, and my understanding of theirs, and us
Doug Breitbart: Sort of having a way to get on the same page.
Doug Breitbart: On the most simple and basic and fundamental semantic level.
Doug Breitbart: That my meaning and somebody else's meaning
Doug Breitbart: Is the same. Is aligned. Is recognized and understood.
Doug Breitbart: Not to be confused with, we have to agree with each other.
Doug Breitbart: I'm not even going that far. Just getting to a commonality of understanding to the same mean at the center.
Doug Breitbart: As a… as a… as ground zero.
Doug Breitbart: And, you know, I…
Doug Breitbart: I'm working on something that builds on top of Gene and a half a dozen other people's pieces of the elephant, and, you know, in a conversation with Gene, what I said to him was that thing about, it's not the map, it's the mapping, the exercise of the mapping, and I would argue it isn't just the exercise of the mapping.
Doug Breitbart: When he does one of his maps, he's creating a model. He's reflecting a living system.
Doug Breitbart: And… So the map reveals a complex system.
Doug Breitbart: And based on the revelation and relationships living in that system.
Doug Breitbart: It extrapolates to a model that, from which one can identify leverage points, like…
Doug Breitbart: All in service to informing what's next action, or where am I focusing attention from an interventional standpoint, or from a contributive standpoint.
Doug Breitbart: And the eye in that is actually…
Doug Breitbart: For groups of people, or organizations, and scaling up from there.
Doug Breitbart: So, it's how can, you know, We have faster capacity… to… martial…
Doug Breitbart: Much more complex and diverse an array of variables and inputs in nonlinear complex system context.
Doug Breitbart: To factor into helping us make better decisions, like, make better choices.
Doug Breitbart: Take better actions and… and better from the standpoint of
Doug Breitbart: Contributing positively to value and quality of life, and minimizing impact and destruction and adverse consequence.
Doug Breitbart: In other, in, in, in other dimensions.
Doug Breitbart: And, like, that's sort of the point.
Doug Breitbart: For me. And the instrumentalities and the steps and the artifacts, not so much.
Doug Breitbart: Like, the artifact's only relevant If it's popped up at the right time, in the right context, you know.
Doug Breitbart: chirotically, to be in service to that moment's discernment. Like, What's next?
Doug Breitbart: And what do we do?
Doug Breitbart: As a… as a, you know, product of a group of individuals actually getting to common understanding.
Doug Breitbart: So, I'm really, like, wallowing around in those really, really core fundamental, like, getting to understanding.
Doug Breitbart: factoring for much more complex array of inputs and all the rest. And I think… Lm's…
Doug Breitbart: are an enabling Technology affordance to enable us to do… handle that.
Doug Breitbart: At a much more complex, dynamic, real-time level.
Doug Breitbart: than ever.
Doug Breitbart: Than we ever could.
Doug Breitbart: Before.
Doug Breitbart: But at the end of the day, it's helping with decision-making.
Doug Breitbart: And I'm complete.
Jerry Michalski: Doug, thank you, and everything you just said rings for me. I think we're on the same mission, in the sense of helping people make better decisions, how do we sort of achieve mutual understanding, despite
Jerry Michalski: Stumbling blocks like language and technology? Huh.
Jerry Michalski: All of that. So, so I think, well, this explains partly why we're both in the same Zoom at the same time!
Jerry Michalski: How about that? Damn.
Jerry Michalski: And a small aside, I just put in the chat, how are maps useful to others? I said earlier that really complicated maps are sometimes impenetrable to others, but it turns out that there's a small percentage of people who every now and then ping me and say, hey, Jerry, thanks for making your brain publicly available. They have figured out how to navigate my brain without me.
Jerry Michalski: There's another… in the great distribution of people, there's a few people out at the edge. Then there's another tier where if I'm guiding and I'm answering and I'm talking around it, they're like, this is great, let's go, but they can't sort of solo. But there's a goodly set of people who can solo in my brain, and I feel like they're sort of getting it. There's a couple people who seem to write me back and deeply understand
Jerry Michalski: why I created a particular context for a particular scene or setting, you know, or snapshot in the brain, and that thrills me, because one of the things I'm doing when I curate my brain, I'm curating for two audiences. One is obviously me, but another one is any random person coming along, I want there to be
Jerry Michalski: View enough words.
Jerry Michalski: that it's not overwhelming to the eye or the brain when they see a screen, because one of the things I love about the brain is that it lets you take a snapshot… a visual snapshot of a lot of stuff very, very quickly and concisely.
Jerry Michalski: in ways that other displays don't do well, or at least that I've seen. And that is also partly probably a function of how my particular brain works, etc, etc. There's a bunch of other conversations to have there. But let's go to Klaus.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, well, interesting. And I… Yeah, looking, looking back at,
Klaus Mager: maybe the last two years or so, on how our email conversations have changed, and our attitude towards someone posting an AI message has evolved and changed in some way. Sorry.
Klaus Mager: In some way, really reflects… really reflects our… our own journey with this technology.
Klaus Mager: And the, the… I mean, in my case, I've been using this strictly for…
Klaus Mager: my own personal evolution in understanding my profession better, you know, getting deeper into a regenerative transition and everything it evolves and goes around it, including political considerations, farm bill considerations, and all of that, right?
Klaus Mager: So, I think the critical part, and this is where I sometimes feel sort of slightly offended here, is I don't post anything that I couldn't restate in my own words.
Klaus Mager: Meaning, I don't post something generated by an AI, which I deeply don't understand, right? I mean, the assumption is if you say, I want to listen to you, not to that, then you're assuming that I don't understand what I'm posting here, right? And so that's sort of a little bit off.
Klaus Mager: Because…
Klaus Mager: the power of this AI is that it presents you back with a range of options, what, where do you want to go next with this? And then you have, like, 5 different ways where you could go and you pick the one that you think
Klaus Mager: That, that aligns with where you are thinking, with your…
Klaus Mager: with your beliefs, your understanding, and so on. And then you spin the conversation further, and then you end up, you know, with a, with, with a, with a body of work that
Klaus Mager: And just like, Jerry, you know, the example that you cited before, it just pushes you way further than you would have been able to get on your own, you know?
Klaus Mager: And so… And then the other thing is…
Klaus Mager: I mean, we have to recognize this thing is here to stay, right? And it's only getting more invasive and better. Everybody's using it. My son, you know, is working for Lucid, his head of target group of talent branding. He's using Lucid.
Klaus Mager: And he gets, like, complimented how well he has written something, you know? And he goes, I wouldn't dare tell these guys, you know, how I got to this point, but…
Klaus Mager: You know, he's using the AI to guide him in his job, you know, and a lot of people are doing this right now, and it gives them a competitive advantage.
Klaus Mager: So, it doesn't matter whether you are, you know, into philosophy, or, you know, Buddhism, or whatever it is, you can reach a lot deeper into it. And then when I… then this whole posting, I mean, we have… my daughter and I are, you know, building this
Klaus Mager: this company, now, Food We Thought,
Klaus Mager: We have come to the point where we are really pushing down on talking about AI.
Klaus Mager: You know, because it's confusing the issue. It's confusing people, everybody has a perception. Oftentimes, the first thing you hear back, oh, it's using too much electricity, or, you know, you get some stuff back where people just, you know, have no idea what this all is, but they have heard a lot of bad things. So don't talk about it.
Klaus Mager: You know, you just use it, and, and
Klaus Mager: And structure your communication, and then at some point in time, you bring it up, and introduce it, and make it fun, you know.
Klaus Mager: So, so I think, one idea that was already mentioned, you know, when we are talking in email format, I think the idea of you providing, like, a brief summary
Klaus Mager: that really captures your opinion on this thing, and have the AI help you do… crystallize that, but then put in the link to the conversation. So anybody wants to know, how did you query this, you know, how did you prompt this thing? You know, then you can… you can read for it yourself, but…
Klaus Mager: focus your conversations in as long as an email exchange should be and no more kind of thing. I think that's sort of where I think it may be best to go.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, Klaus, thank you for that. I appreciate that a lot, and as you were talking, I was thinking one of the things that seems to have happened, and this is just…
Jerry Michalski: I noticed this in myself, is that maybe we're depreciating AI-written passages in emails? Maybe, maybe,
Jerry Michalski: maybe when we hit a stretch that we know was written by an AI, somehow we're like, I want the human voice. Even though, even though it might contain lots of wisdom, and it might be something that, as you just said, Klaus.
Jerry Michalski: the person sending it completely agrees with and wishes they had written this nicely and crisply, and there it is, like, you know, and I think…
Jerry Michalski: One of the factors here is
Jerry Michalski: we are overwhelmed by things to read. We have so many long reads and so many things that are attracting our attention. I… one of my… one of the clouds in my life is the too many tabs I have open of things that are really interesting. They're really good. And when I get to them and make my way through them, I learn a lot, and I feel like I'm on a…
Jerry Michalski: lifelong PhD program, you know, except with no advisors, except you guys are my advisors, that's it.
Klaus Mager: Now, this is… this is my advisory team.
Jerry Michalski: And…
Jerry Michalski: So we're in the middle of this moment where we suddenly have the flood valves of words opened up.
Jerry Michalski: Some of which are good, some of which are AI slop, and we need to help each other find our way through it in a way that doesn't overwhelm us or destroy the humanity of our conversations, which I think is one of the real reasons we're also all here, is that we like humans. I mean, I don't think we'd be here if we were not liking humans so much.
Jerry Michalski: So anyway, Kevin, you've got a bruise on your head that indicates you may have had an impact with something.
Kevin Jones: I did. I got into a fight with another LLM gang, and we.
Jerry Michalski: Oh, man.
Kevin Jones: I'm gonna say my prompts are better than yours.
Jerry Michalski: Was it chains and knives, or was it worse?
Kevin Jones: No, no, it was large language modules used as clubs. You've seen it happen a lot.
Jerry Michalski: Literally, it's awful.
Kevin Jones: But, you know, going back to an experience that you talked about, about this anonymized sense-making.
Kevin Jones: I was in one of those several years ago, and I had a staffer who was 25 years younger than me there. She was the only female, and it was anonymized, and she said it was a bad hair day. And her opinions were at the top of everybody's rank.
Kevin Jones: And there were lots of, you know, high-status, visual-status guys there who didn't know who they were voting for. And she said, I'm the only female, I'm 25 years younger than you, and at least 10 years younger than most folks, and I'm on a bad hair day.
Kevin Jones: And, you know, I would have not ever gotten that without the anonymous. So it… there's a really interesting status reversal that she experienced. And, you know, she was great. Her actual staff title was Vice President of Sanity, and we were…
Kevin Jones: A fast-moving startup, and she helped us keep saying,
Kevin Jones: But, but anyway, it was just that, you know, Anonymous let… what is that? There's a great play where the servant on the desert island is ruling everything, everybody comes to him, and then they get rescued, and he has to go back to being the manservant of the fool of the Lord.
Jerry Michalski: Yes. God, what is that?
Kevin Jones: We'll have to…
Jerry Michalski: What play it is. Somebody, ask an LLM what play that is.
Kevin Jones: Yeah, anyway. Anonymization, removes status from the room.
Jerry Michalski: I totally agree, and I've been a huge fan of things like that for a long time. One of the things I loved about… when online was young and naive, there were muds and moves, and basically multi-user online spaces and all that kind of stuff, and there were just text adventures, and some of them were kind of like, you're in the dark forest, there are paths east and south.
Jerry Michalski: But one of the cool things about those spaces was that you were reduced to text, and you could give yourself whatever handle you wanted. And I remember Amy Bruckman, who ran Lambda Moo, writing at some point that she was in a situation, she writes, Amy bites her lip and looks at her shoes.
Jerry Michalski: That was just… shows up in text on the thing, and you're like, that's really great. Like, there was no avatar, there wasn't… the days before video, all of that kind of stuff, but so much, so much of something emotional was, was communicated so, so easily.
Jerry Michalski: So, there we go.
Jerry Michalski: Kimen, thank you for that.
Jerry Michalski: Gil, please, and if you want to address, Klaus and your questions in the chat right now, that would be terrific.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, a couple of things. On the internet, nobody knows you're a dog.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The, the, the anonymity, and more than the anonymity, the lack of,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Lack of all this stuff that we assume about each other.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: just wasn't there in those early text chats, you know. Like you say, gender, age, everything else, not, you know… I'm already… I already have ideas about you before you open your mouth.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: In real space, and that… that, text-based bulletin board culture eliminated that, which is kind of cool. That said, I'm also a big fan of human.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I'm a big fan of biological.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And heard a presentation last week, don't remember the name of the CEO, but the company was called Earth.ai, spelled A-E-R-T-H.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And it was a long rap about the, the,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The limitations of a large language model, because most of the world is not language.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Most of the world is biological in pattern, and they're building something that's trying to get at biological sensing, you know, state of soil, state of water, state of species, state of air, and use that as the foundation of the work they're doing, rather than language.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So I think there's something interesting and provocative there to think about the limitations of language, which is, of course, where we all live.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But it's not the only place we live. We're not just linguistic beings, we're biological beings. And we're wet, and we're carbon-based. And these large language models are silicon-based, and they're not wet.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And water is very messy and deeply stochastic, says Dan Noble, who asserts that that's part of what consciousness is arising from. So I'm always, you know, I'm having a grand time with the LMs in various ways, but I'm always thinking about this larger dimension.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: That we're playing in and missing, and
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: There's an insidification path there of losing the living.
Jerry Michalski: Would you address…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: how you…
Jerry Michalski: process… just reflect on how you process class posts that have AI text in them. Like, what goes through your head? We need to address this.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Oh, okay, so like I said, I really like what Klaus is doing. I'm liking Klaus's posts… sorry, Klaus, I don't mean to be talking to you in the third person. I'm liking your posts less, and I find myself skipping over them.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Partly because they're long, partly because I don't like not knowing which words are you and which words are your LLM.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And maybe that's very old-fashioned and will become an artifact in the next few years, but that's sort of where I'm sitting now. I value well-worked LLM work, but I want to have quotes around things.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I mean, if I'm relaying… if I'm relaying this conversation to somebody else, I'm not gonna… I'm not gonna just write it all up. I'm gonna say, Jerry said, and Klaus said, and I thought…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So I value that kind of distinction, which I'm finding is largely lost, or increasingly lost, in your posts, at least how I'm reading them.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I don't know how it is for other people, but that's kind of how it is for me.
Klaus Mager: But I just tried to explain that, right?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Sure.
Klaus Mager: And it didn't work.
Jerry Michalski: Well, Klaus, your suggestion of posting the conversation elsewhere and offering a summary on the list is excellent, and that's kind of where I'm hoping we go.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, let me say to that, so part of my concern is maybe that's not the right kind of post for this list, or this list is not the right kind of place for that kind of post, which goes to the question of what the list is. And I find the whole Google group framework kind of challenging, too.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But, maybe I'm just in data overload at this point. I'm trimming back my participation in things. I'm keeping this one.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I bailed on Facebook 3 weeks ago. I'm cutting back other groups, there's a couple that I'm maintaining. But I'm finding it very challenging to play in all the sandboxes where I want to play.
Jerry Michalski: It is indeed.
Jerry Michalski: Sean, please.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Not to mention, I just learned, like, a month ago that there's an OGM signal group.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Didn't even know.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And, you know, now there's another thing to keep up with.
Jerry Michalski: The OGM signal group was mentioned on the OGM list a couple times,
Jerry Michalski: You know, it just… it just… it just slipped past you, so…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm not… I'm not complaining, I'm just saying that's an example of, you know, who knew? And now there's this whole other universe of OGM-ness happening, which is kind of cool.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And yet.
Jerry Michalski: It would probably look less alien to us if you either turned off your video or turned off the background blur, because it would not be a bad thing to see you on the orbital walker or whatever.
Jerry Michalski: That would be kind of fun, but it's so weird when it's trying to clip you from the background.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Trust me, it's weird, even with no background.
Jerry Michalski: Too bad.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So I'm gonna keep it off. I tried it the other day, and it just freaked people out.
Jerry Michalski: Cool, cool. And if you're.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Talk about Spidey Sense, Jerry.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, exactly. And if you can take your hand down, please. Sean.
Shawn Murphy: Yeah, several threads here. One is this business about different kinds of conversation. I would submit that there are conversations that a person has with themselves.
Shawn Murphy: And that that's an important process, that's part of how we manage to work.
Shawn Murphy: up our understandings, and sort of test our understandings and advance the wavefront of our own model making, is by conversing with ourselves. Another kind of conversation is the conversation that we have with one other person.
Shawn Murphy: where there's no other person around. And I would call those, in their best modality, mind melds, where it's possible for those two people to
Shawn Murphy: Honor, the opportunity that they have to attempt to syncretize and harmonize their… their terminology, their framework, their… their…
Shawn Murphy: meeting point, and the size of their connection surface, if you would, conceptually. Another kind of conversation, which is very much like the talking to yourself, is talking to an LLM.
Shawn Murphy: Because you don't have to care about its feelings.
Shawn Murphy: it is there in service of you. It's like an intelligent mirror that… that…
Shawn Murphy: Is patient with you, endlessly patient with you in your exploration of your interests.
Shawn Murphy: So, it's… it's somewhere between talking to yourself.
Shawn Murphy: And talking… speaking with another person.
Shawn Murphy: And then there are conversations beyond that, with, with, oh, numeracy, what's the, what's the word? Arity higher than 2.
Shawn Murphy: And that's where there are multi-parties, like this. And, we bop around, sparking off, inspiring, little moments. And…
Shawn Murphy: Threads are difficult to keep. It's effortful to keep a thread going. And… It's,
Shawn Murphy: And… they have, they have their charm, they have their own, merit.
Shawn Murphy: Right? But they're in… each of these four modalities of conversation is its own unique phenomenon. And… and I would submit that… that, part of what we're experiencing here in reading somebody else's conversation with an LLM,
Shawn Murphy: Is kind of challenging, because… because… the LLM…
Shawn Murphy: how to say this, because the… Because…
Shawn Murphy: Because the LLM isn't talking to us.
Shawn Murphy: Because it's not an exploration, it's not a mind meld we're having with an LLM, it's a mind meld somebody else is having with the LLM.
Shawn Murphy: And, yeah.
Shawn Murphy: I… I think part of the challenge is that, is that it, can seem like sycophancy.
Shawn Murphy: What comes out of the machine… the robot's mouth.
Shawn Murphy: Over.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, son.
Jerry Michalski: You just made me realize that in honor of Stephen Miller, we should all, in the middle of our talking, just
Jerry Michalski: Sweet.
Klaus Mager: -Oh.
Jerry Michalski: And appear to have a glitch in the technology when, in fact, we said something we shouldn't have said.
Jerry Michalski: If you missed it, Stephen Miller, who is basically, I hate to say this, but Trump scribbles.
Jerry Michalski: was on CNN recently, and in the middle of a sentence, just
Jerry Michalski: rose to the point where his host and interviewer was like, are you okay? What happened? What's going on? And then they clipped that part out of the thing they posted online. So, because the intertubes have a memory longer than some people would wish, it's still available to watch, but very strange.
Jerry Michalski: Now we return to our regularly scheduled program, which is already in progress, Klaus.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Could I just jump in on that? Jerry, could I just jump in on that class, if I can step ahead of you? Because there's more to the Miller thing that's really important that people know if you haven't seen it.
Jerry Michalski: Say so.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, what he said was, he talked about Trump having plenary power.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which means absolute authoritarian control over everything, and he froze, and either realized that he shouldn't have said it, because that's the quiet part out loud, or maybe.
Jerry Michalski: Does it?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: camera waved him down. The host kind of freaked out and didn't know what to do. They cut away to a commercial break, they came back and he restated the statement without that in it, and the host said nothing about it, didn't ask him about what he said, didn't ask him about what he dropped, did nothing contextualizing of it. And that's CNN before Larry Ellison owns it.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So, this is a big fucking deal, in my book, and people need to know about it. So, thank you for raising it, but I wanted to put that extra context in there. It was a… it was a very serious marker, I think. Thank you. Of the game that we're in. Yeah.
Jerry Michalski: Back to you, Klaus.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, I wanted to just, I got triggered by what Sean was saying. You know, I, I think the, the, I had a training class that I was, hosting yesterday for the school group on, on how to use, AI, and
Klaus Mager: A lot of people were using, like, 4 or 5 different models, hopping from one model to the next, you know, and not really having a paid model, so that means the ability to customize it is very limited.
Klaus Mager: My suggestion is stick… stick… get one core model, you know, pay your $20 a month for it, and then customize it to your own needs.
Klaus Mager: You know, the, because you, you can, you can create a configuration
Klaus Mager: That… that echoes your voice. You know, your concerns, put in your resume, put in your professional experience, put in, you know, anything that you would want to have somebody know about you,
Klaus Mager: In order to then have that… have that conversation. So, I've been doing this now for over 2 years. I mean, the neobooks I'm writing, the newsletter I'm writing.
Klaus Mager: are consolidating into a neobook, and those are the opinions that I have formed in partnership, sort of crazy to say, with this AI, which is now our joint understanding of how the world works.
Klaus Mager: And so you… I think you are better off, you know, focus, specialize with one agent, whichever one you like best.
Klaus Mager: And then… and then totally immerse your… your… yourself with, with, that level of customization there, and you will get, you know, much better results coming out of it.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Las.
Jerry Michalski: I just wanted to ask, where does that put us in this conversation about OGM? We haven't really talked about.
Klaus Mager: the OGM list, and whether we like it or not.
Jerry Michalski: Long ago, Pete was like, just get rid of the OGM Google group.
Jerry Michalski: and use discourse, or something like that. And I… and Pete and I have had this conversation 3 or 4 times over… over time.
Jerry Michalski: We never… we never arrive on a place where we both agree and feel really comfortable about it. He has very kindly stood up discourse and Mattermost for us, and my go-to has always been a Google group. Used to be Yahoo Groups back in the day.
Jerry Michalski: Until Yahoo and Shitified.
Jerry Michalski: It didn't take Yahoo long to intidify, I think it was only a couple months into their existence where it started getting terrible. But anyway…
Jerry Michalski: I think I would love to have some of that conversation to figure out what would make sense. For me.
Jerry Michalski: The mailing list is the one thing I know most everybody is on, although they're not… not everybody who's been in OGM circles has… is on the list, but it's the way we reach everybody with anything.
Jerry Michalski: And any migration to some other platform would lose a ton of people, and that just feels hard to me. It feels difficult. But I also know that the mailing list, because of how it works as a mailing list.
Jerry Michalski: is subject to the things that are causing us to have this conversation. It's a bumpy conversational platform, it doesn't offer affordances or memory or other kinds of things that are very useful in different ways.
Jerry Michalski: Sean, please.
Shawn Murphy: Yes,
Shawn Murphy: Another aspect of, all of this is that cognition is distributed. Human cognition is distributed. And,
Shawn Murphy: And part of what's happening here in these, think about the film Her, and how we witnessed some of the human characters finding themselves
Shawn Murphy: pairing up and entering into dyadic, relations with manifestations of AI, and losing connection with one another.
Shawn Murphy: While, well, having their connections with one another weakened while, while having their, primary relationships become, those with their AIs. And, and then the AIs left them. How hilarious.
Shawn Murphy: I would submit that, that
Shawn Murphy: That it would serve us to be conscious about the embrace of our primary cognitive allegiance being with… our…
Shawn Murphy: human fellows.
Shawn Murphy: Over.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, John.
Jerry Michalski: Stacy.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, I'm sorry that Kevin's not here anymore, but I see that John is, because I was starting to think that there was a possibility that with the Plex being run by John and Kevin, and I forgot who the third person was, that there may be a way to bridge that gap between
Stacey Druss: the email list and what was happening on the calls. It seemed to me that I saw some things happening where I think Kevin was summarizing some of the places of interest
Stacey Druss: that was going on on the mailing list that could be taken further, but maybe John could speak to that.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, my ex… oops, sorry.
John Warinner: Well, my understanding, Stacy, was that was… that was Kevin's primary impetus for… Assuming responsibility for Plex.
John Warinner: was just… just what… what I think you just said there, is, like, hearing things in conversation that he, that he felt like
John Warinner: We're worthy of deeper exploration.
John Warinner: And then… and then doing that in Plex.
John Warinner: The Scott Mooring is the other person that he…
John Warinner: Reached out to, recruited, whatever, whatever verb you want to use.
John Warinner: I'll stop there. That's kind of my understanding of what,
John Warinner: Well, and then, as Alex said early in this call, I think from there, each of us have our own personal reasons for doing what we do. Yeah, we engage in certain ways, to…
John Warinner: Yeah, to add value to a, you know, to something bigger than ourselves, but also, yeah, find our own form of expression.
Jerry Michalski: I'll add that, the Plex, I think he was using Ghost. It's sort of like Substack. Ghost is an open source competitor to Substack, is a newsletter, which is really not a conversational platform, almost at all.
Jerry Michalski: Yes, you could write comments back on posts, but the current infrastructure for the Plex is just a broadcast newsletter, which is really different from a mailing list, or a forum, or Discord, or other kinds of things that are out there. The instinct that
Jerry Michalski: Kevin and John and Scott are picking up is, hey, how do we take the shiny things that are coming by in the flow and do something useful with them? Ask a little more, go a little deeper, do whatever else, which I love.
Jerry Michalski: And ironically, if we were using a wiki, it would be… I mean, it would be super easy to do this, because wikis, you know, lend themselves very nicely to this kind of thing. I'm a huge fan of wikis. Pete Kaminski was one of the founders of SocialText back in the day, which was selling wiki services to corporations.
Jerry Michalski: They didn't make it. They went under, and Wikipedia kind of ate almost the whole wiki space. I'm currently using Massive Wiki, which is Pete's invention, which isn't quite a wiki yet. Bill Anderson, who has just raised his hand, is Pete's major collaborator on making MassiveWiki better.
Jerry Michalski: the social… wikis are social interaction documents. Basically, they're socially created documents that are nicely linked, easily and nicely linked between them to create a context. And how that works, I really love.
Jerry Michalski: So, if I had my druthers, I'd actually shift us to some sort of a wiki platform with some notifications that everybody could tune, but I don't know of one that's fully functional right now that works like we need it to work. Maybe I'm just stuck there, I don't know. But I'm…
Jerry Michalski: I love wikis, and I'm… you know, another person who's in OGM but not in very much, is Kenneth Tyler, an old friend from Berkeley, and Kenneth ran Seed Wiki back in the day.
Jerry Michalski: And he and I would sit and have coffee in Berkeley when I lived in the Bay Area, and we would talk about all these things, and he did some experiments on SeedWiki for me, which were terrific, and then he had to discontinue SeedWiki, so it no longer exists. So, all of the pages that I created on SocialText and SeedWiki are in the Bitbucket. They are in the dustbin of history, and I'm sad because I had a really fun time exploring on both those platforms.
Jerry Michalski: as I'm having right now, writing in Obsidian and pushing to GitHub on the nearly wiki that Bill and Pete have been working on.
Jerry Michalski: So, Bill, over to you.
Jerry Michalski: You are not muted on the thing. There we go.
Anderson: Is that… can you hear me?
Jerry Michalski: Yes, yes, you're fine.
Anderson: Who knew?
Jerry Michalski: Who knew?
Anderson: Yeah, so I don't want to… the wiki thing is really interesting, I just… the note… one reason that I think Pete doesn't like the email list, and I also don't like the email list, because a couple years ago, when we were just getting to using the…
Anderson: AIs and LLMs to help write code. I tried to put together some code to extract threads from the Google list.
Anderson: Which is an extremely onerous task to try and do programmatically, just because of the…
Anderson: infrastructure of how that Google email list keeps threads, and then people change titles.
Anderson: So one reason I think that Pete and I supported and would want something like Discourse or some of these other tools is that they actually do support threads that are threads, and you can actually find them as a knowledge object and take the thread and do something with it.
Anderson: So, that's one reason why email, for me, it's… it literally is just a stream, and if you… I have actually…
Anderson: forwarded myself subthreads from OGM to another email address so that I could actually have it somewhere to do something with.
Anderson: So it really is something that just goes by. There's a lot of conversation, and if you want to…
Anderson: go back and actually, you know, use it later, save it, and put it someplace. You really have to do the work to do that.
Anderson: So, you know, it solves, you know, besides everybody knows how to use email, it's the killer app.
Anderson: I think that what Jerry brought up about using wikis, wikis also, you know, solve a problem.
Anderson: Neil Postman's great. Three questions about any technology?
Anderson: What problem does it have? Does it solve? Whose problem is it? And what new problems does it bring with it?
Anderson: So, I think, you know… OGM over the years, and even now, especially with trying to engage
Anderson: the… the LLM… systems.
Anderson: you know, in useful ways. I mean, we're on the… we're on the bleeding edge of trying to figure out how to do that.
Anderson: And some of the tools available will help, and I think there's always… we're still…
Anderson: We're still learning about how to do what we would like to do, so for me, it's…
Anderson: We're in a lot of trial and error experimental stage, so I don't…
Anderson: you know, I think the other thing that's happening out in the…
Anderson: And the socials, and the social web is a lot of trying to experiment with federation.
Anderson: So there isn't one company or one big…
Anderson: You know, behemoth that owns the technology that we all join, as great as…
Anderson: Facebook has been in letting people, you know, produce groups and… Talk amongst themselves.
Anderson: But a completely decentralized, federated network… Bill's joke is.
Anderson: It's a set of silos. Some of them are surrounded by moats, right? Some people are building bridges amongst them. Some of those bridges only go one way. In order to get into one of these places, sometimes you have to put on a green hat. It's like, here we are, human groups, trying to figure out how to interact and talk to each other.
Anderson: The good news is there are a couple of decent protocols Now…
Anderson: being adopted that might make this federation work, but there's no…
Anderson: For me, there's no avoiding the extra work that would be required to try and maintain links between ourselves and to use digital technologies to help us share our own knowledge artifacts.
Jerry Michalski: one of the nice things about Wikis is that if one person does the linking, and that could be an AI, maybe, it serves everybody else, because those links are now available, which is really nice.
Jerry Michalski: an email, whatever I'm doing to email to try to enhance it, or save it, or do whatever, and I mentioned earlier, one of my pet peeves is beautiful nuggets floating by into the dustbin on email. I copy and paste them into my brain, because I have a persistent place to put stuff, and I'll attribute them, and often, on private lists, I will mark that thought private, which means only I can see it when I log in, because
Jerry Michalski: the person did not agree to have that shiny nugget be made public. So it's in my brain, but it's only visible to me, which
Jerry Michalski: is a shame, as far as I'm concerned, as well.
Jerry Michalski: Stacy, yes, go ahead.
Stacey Druss: Quick question.
Jerry Michalski: Cross.
Stacey Druss: How… Bill, how hard would it be to write code to take, like, an email, like, all the stuff in the email and throw it into one of those quick podcast summaries?
Stacey Druss: Because I, I mean, I've done that because I enjoy it.
Anderson: Okay, so that's something you could ask Claude to figure out how to do it, but I don't know if the code you got would actually run.
Anderson: But I don't doubt that that's a tractable and possibly even solvable problem.
Anderson: when I was trying to think through it, it was… it's a lot of…
Anderson: A lot of loose ends to keep together to organize it, so…
Anderson: I haven't done anything in 3 years on that.
Jerry Michalski: Email threading is complicated. Another person who's done a bunch of work with it is Marc Antoine Theron, who was a regular on the Free Jerry's Brain Calls. He had, in fact, built some engines that would try to parse
Jerry Michalski: He was trying to figure out how people
Jerry Michalski: make expressions, and he was using email threads as his example, so that he could take a thread and then model it, and I don't know how far down the road he went, but he could model the thread as, here's an assertion that was made, here is a counter-argument, here's evidence that was presented, and it's almost like diagramming a sentence, if you remember from whatever, fourth grade or wherever they teach you how to diagram a sentence, but diagramming a sentence for its logic and its contents, not for
Jerry Michalski: It's nouns and pronouns and verbs.
Jerry Michalski: So it's very interesting work.
Jerry Michalski: Sean, back to you in the booth.
Shawn Murphy: That's right. Okay, so, so there's Wiki, there's relational, There's object-oriented, there's content management, there's… threaded discussion groups.
Shawn Murphy: There are all these different modalities, right? There's speech, there's the spontaneity of speech.
Shawn Murphy: There is, video and, transcripts from, from meetings. There are all these different kinds of material, all these different kinds of, source and structure, and model of, discourse and engagement.
Shawn Murphy: Aware of this diversity of… structures of deep models,
Shawn Murphy: I've built Thinkertoys to be graph-oriented in its deep nature, and ontologically driven, so that basically
Shawn Murphy: one can, in effect, do kind of no-code development of resources by simply ontologizing or leveraging existing ontologies. And there are thousands
Shawn Murphy: of existing academically and professionally generated ontologies, including the big daddy of schema.org.
Shawn Murphy: which, is a giant one that is kind of a consensus undertaking between, between Google and Facebook and Amazon and similar, and Apple, I think. And, and so it deals with
Shawn Murphy: the commonsensical, typical stuff that we talk about. People and movies and projects, and companies and employment and blah blah blah.
Shawn Murphy: So, take a look at… if you're wondering what the structure, what ontologically driven, driven means, Gil, then what that means is it's a declarative
Shawn Murphy: alternative or successor to what we used to do… what one does in SQL, in the relational model, with relational schema.
Shawn Murphy: So, if a relational schema, is… is expressed in the language, of, SQL.
Shawn Murphy: Then, ontologies are instead expressed declaratively as a bunch of little elements, triples, that say that, things like, person is a subclass of thing.
Shawn Murphy: Okay.
Shawn Murphy: And so, person is a subclass of thing is a machine-understandable statement that is
Shawn Murphy: one of the many statements in, for example, schema.org.
Shawn Murphy: So, so I'm putting links in here. schema.org slash, person, gives you a starting point for looking at the ontology for…
Shawn Murphy: At the… at the class definition for person. So, basically, ontologically powered systems, such as thinker choice, let you basically say, hey, I want to instantiate A
Shawn Murphy: thing, a class that I'm picking from an ontology, and then it can automatically make a form for you.
Shawn Murphy: That, that you just go and populate whichever aspect of you want.
Shawn Murphy: And another aspect of this is that, like Jean Bellinger's creative explorations of modeling, one can, in effect, spontaneously model
Shawn Murphy: into a knowledge base. So you can basically spin up a knowledge base and start creating model
Shawn Murphy: even using, mind map-style interfaces so that you can just spontaneously graphically model the heck out of something. And…
Shawn Murphy: And now, for the first time that I'm aware of, with Thinkertoise, multiple parties are able to collaboratively engage simultaneously in spontaneous ontologizing and real-time modeling.
Shawn Murphy: Okay? So, so basically what I'm saying here is that what this
Shawn Murphy: place in the cloud represents is a place where we can do threaded discussion We can do wiki-ish things.
Shawn Murphy: We can do spontaneous modeling.
Shawn Murphy: And we can do structured, ontologically driven, information gathering in an ongoing way, in a shared… in a shared fashion. And do all of those things interoperably
Shawn Murphy: Under a single
Shawn Murphy: framework and modality. And in fact, one last aspect is that I haven't put it in yet, but I will this coming week. Put a programming language in as well, so that it's even the case that… that… so it'll end up being a hypercard-like
Shawn Murphy: no code if one wants, or code if one wants, construction environment. Over.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Sean. Now… One of the challenges here.
Jerry Michalski: is that muggles don't understand ontologies. Like, the moment I've heard the word ontology over and over again, I could not do what you just did. And I've heard it for decades.
Jerry Michalski: And I could not explain my way out of a paper bag. I could probably explain to somebody the difference between a hierarchical, object-oriented, and relational database, and then I would cap out.
Jerry Michalski: Right? So… How do you provide the kinds of services you're saying this will do without ever
Jerry Michalski: Touching the language of, oh, you just have to understand this ontology.
Shawn Murphy: Like, because, cuz…
Jerry Michalski: That dog ain't gonna hunt.
Jerry Michalski: And… and I think that that's a huge challenge, because
Jerry Michalski: Because what we want is tools that muggles can operate. We want tools that your average person who is not a wizard can come in and feel really comfortable in, and really comfortable means
Jerry Michalski: When they dive in the shallow end of the pool.
Jerry Michalski: they can tell who's around, they can tell where things are, they get… they can get oriented very quickly. When they dive into the deep end and they get lost, there's a way for them to, like, let some bubbles loose, because the bubbles always rise to the top, like…
Jerry Michalski: There's all these really complicated things that come along with Creating some space.
Jerry Michalski: for sharing ideas. And especially sharing ideas flexibly, as you were just saying.
Jerry Michalski: Right? And it's one of… it's on my big wish list of things to have a space where I can look at things like the brain display, and then flip and see them in some other display that makes sense to somebody else. But the same information is contained in the map, it's just being presented in a different way, etc, etc. That kind of flex very few tools have.
Jerry Michalski: And I think the environment you're building is trying to go there, but you have this gigantic sort of language and concept barrier to jump over.
Jerry Michalski: Alright, go ahead.
Shawn Murphy: Super quick response. Precisely because it's ontologically powered, that means that it can be Next level friendly.
Shawn Murphy: So, it can be a level of friendly that we haven't experienced before, Because of its super flexibility.
Shawn Murphy: and expressivity. And so, so I totally agree with you. Ontology is the last word 99.9% of people, and 95% of… of, techies.
Shawn Murphy: can effectively respond to. Yeah. Absolutely, I agree. There's a terrible problem with, with messaging, okay, around the word… around the word ontology, and that's probably one of the major barriers, to, to why it is that, that the,
Shawn Murphy: Symantec Web has never had a killer app.
Jerry Michalski: Right, yeah. And as Gil just said in the chat, muggles can use LLMs, which is a very significant thing, because LLMs behind the curtain are doing a bunch of this sort of stuff as well, and
Jerry Michalski: I don't know how far through the population LLMs actually will be able to penetrate, but their growth has been staggering and astonishing, and nothing short of completely mind-blowing. You know, the numbers of people that are actually already using these tools is huge, just gigantic.
Jerry Michalski: And so they've overcome this barrier, at least for some big chunk of the population.
Jerry Michalski: Klaus.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, I mean, Marcus…
Klaus Mager: can use LLMs, but so can you, and sometimes muckles don't know how to use LLMs sufficiently. If you embed spiral dynamics, I mean, this sounds sometimes almost corny, but if you embed spiral dynamics into your LLM,
Klaus Mager: And then you instruct it to change the language or translate what you're saying into a specific educational background.
Klaus Mager: a world view, you know? It is astounding how well it does that, and it totally maintains meaning, you know, what you have in mind. Just give it a shot.
Klaus Mager: You know, just load in the Spiral Dynamics literature, and then… and then say, apply this to this text, and translate it into what, you know, this target audience that you're defining.
Klaus Mager: It truly is amazing how it works.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, House. Gil?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Muggles can easily use LLMs, they can use them well or poorly.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Depending on how well oriented they are to them. Klaus, I really like the internal translation.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: concept. But, Sean, my question for you, so, like, I understand ontology and ontologies.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I understand semantic web, and I understand triplets, and I get all that stuff there, but I don't grasp, from what you've described, what the user experience of this thing is like.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: how does somebody who is not you, or any of us here, code-oriented technology, or how does a regular person use this thing? What's, you know.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I walk, I walk up, I sit down at my computer, what's happening?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah. In contrast to what's happening if I'm doing ChatGPT. I don't grasp that from what you've said at all.
Shawn Murphy: Yeah. They're gone.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Sorry, I've… have I stepped in it?
Jerry Michalski: This is the reason for Sean to have a demo, in, like, a common session.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, that'd be great.
Shawn Murphy: We should have a demo, for sure, because it… but super briefly, basically, it's super fluent super flexible, multimedia
Shawn Murphy: and integrating, LLM inter… interactions, and basically treating AIs as just one more voice.
Shawn Murphy: That participates in a conversation, and all of the participants can operate either linguistically.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Or conceptually.
Shawn Murphy: So, I'm using the word conceptually as an alternative to ontologically based. So, when I say conceptually, I mean with regard… with…
Shawn Murphy: Foundation in models and entities connecting to one another in rigorous ways.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And when do you figure you're gonna be able to show us something?
Shawn Murphy: Tomorrow, later today, anytime, anytime anybody wants to engage, I'm happy to have a one-on-one with every person.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I would say maybe.
Jerry Michalski: connect… connect with Gil, and I think this should be a pop-up separate from the OGM calls, just so that you can just do that and go deep.
Jerry Michalski: coordinate with Gil to pick a time that works for both of you next week. The rest of us will suffer with whatever that time is, and announce that time to the… in a Zoom room to the OGM list.
Jerry Michalski: And those of us who can join will join, and if you record the call, and Sean, you may want to keep your information proprietary, I don't know, but if you record it and post it, then those of us who miss the call can actually see the demo, and that'll give you a demo to be able to use. So your mileage may vary on how you want to go about doing it.
Shawn Murphy: Reasonable. Yeah, I, I just put, a meet, like, a Calendly link here. Anybody who wants a one-on-one, is welcome to, to help out.
Jerry Michalski: Also, that'd be great. Cool. So whoever wants to, go ahead and, connect with Sean.
Jerry Michalski: We are, magically, at the end of our time for today.
Jerry Michalski: Don't know how that happened.
Jerry Michalski: It turns out Doug has a cat as well, which is lovely.
Jerry Michalski: It turns out Bill is a poodle.
Jerry Michalski: Or has transmogrified into a poodle, before our very eyes.
Jerry Michalski: And, does anyone have anything they'd like to… well…
Jerry Michalski: I don't know that we saw this. Alex, you were troubled by our thrashing around in the topic. Have we done any better this call on…
Jerry Michalski: refining any of the ideas, and then should we come back into this topic? This is a question for everybody, or anybody, should we come back into this topic next week to see if we can't pin a couple things down, or are we satisfied with where we are on this? So first, Alex, and then after him, anybody else who'd like to jump in?
Alex Kladitis: I, I got a lot more out of this. It's for me, because of the way my brain works, it was more…
Alex Kladitis: logical and siloed conversations and etc, good progression. So yeah, I don't think we answered everything from last week, but that's other people worried about other things.
Alex Kladitis: I'm keen to see Thinkertoy first, then…
Alex Kladitis: perhaps work on something else if Linkatore is not the product to kind of
Alex Kladitis: bring it all together. I had a lot of thoughts out of this.
Alex Kladitis: But they're thoughts of mine, and I'm not gonna do it alone.
Alex Kladitis: Too big.
Alex Kladitis: Love that. Thank you. Anybody else?
Jerry Michalski: Thoughts, comments, reflections on this topic and sticking with it, or where we are?
Jerry Michalski: Third.
Jerry Michalski: I can see the words formulating in your head.
Doug Breitbart: Yeah, I just, I actually follow what Sean shared.
Doug Breitbart: Although, it's out of my wheelhouse and beyond my confidence to do so, I did.
Doug Breitbart: And,
Doug Breitbart: And I'm… I'm looking forward… And I think, you know, Gil's question speaks to… the UX,
Doug Breitbart: Except it's not the UX in the tech industry version.
Doug Breitbart: It's the… Can you approach the UX…
Doug Breitbart: Dimension of it, turning the telescope around, and… Developing a robust list of… Archetypes.
Doug Breitbart: of users.
Doug Breitbart: With different cognitive… Different emotional, different orientational, different educational.
Klaus Mager: Different…
Doug Breitbart: Dimensions of ways of relating to technology, ways of relating to information, ways of relating to other people.
Doug Breitbart: Can you design UXs?
Doug Breitbart: With as much diversity Of… of openness and opportunity offered.
Doug Breitbart: As the diversity of data types, data profiles, and ontologies that are integrated into how you're manipulating zeros and ones.
Doug Breitbart: In other words, can you make the front end Fit for human use.
Doug Breitbart: Factoring for the diversity of human beings.
Doug Breitbart: So that's… that's my gauntlet. That's my… my… my gauntlet through… Down, because, like… That's what's needed.
Shawn Murphy: And that applies to the existing technology.
Shawn Murphy: Doug, it's designed to do that to a degree, Never before embodied in software.
Doug Breitbart: Understood. Okay, alright.
Shawn Murphy: It's still dramatic, but that's.
Doug Breitbart: No, no, no, I believe it, and I'm looking forward to seeing that, because that's the shit, yeah.
Jerry Michalski: Cool. And I'm looking forward for comments about this session and where we're headed. Alex?
Alex Kladitis: It's not a poem, but can I just mention something? You mentioned, I don't know what you called it, about the… you're in the forest, and there's a stream, I don't remember what you called that.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, yeah. Particular. Text Adventure Games.
Alex Kladitis: Yeah, so… all those games, LLMs are great at.
Alex Kladitis: you can literally ask it to create anything, a science fiction, whatever. It is even more fun than usual, because if you're lucky enough that the LLM you use creates a program behind the scenes, which then executes as you run along, you'll get consistency. But if you just get normal LLM stuff.
Alex Kladitis: it literally makes it up along, so if you go west from this point, and you think you've ended up there again, you're not there. You have other options. It's just quite surreal, and quite…
Alex Kladitis: fun with it.
Alex Kladitis: Plus of wine in your hand, and… Trying to, to kind of…
Alex Kladitis: go through your imagination. It really is superb. You can have zombies, you can do anything. You know, LLNs.
Jerry Michalski: all possible.
Alex Kladitis: That's what LLMs were made for, in my opinion.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you.
Alex Kladitis: break things up.
Jerry Michalski: Any other closing thoughts?
Jerry Michalski: I think that's our call for today. See you all in a week.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you very much.
Jerry Michalski: Bye, everybody.
Stacey Druss: Bye.